Background
~~~~~~~~~~

Blockchain technology has been evolving very quickly since the
introduction of Bitcoin in 2008. Over the past nine years, many
Blockchain techniques have been explored to try out various ideas, in
the hope to expand the Blockchain usage, performance and applications.
At the same time, the token value of Blockchain plays a vital role in
the adoption of the blockchains. It helps to incentive more participants
to join the ecosystem, also acts extremely useful to augment the
existing payment system in a more efficient way. However, as Blockchain
in its still early stage, it suffers from couples of problem.

1. Difficult to try new idea New idea means a new Blockchain. It
   requires extensive overhead to implement a new Blockchain idea, by
   setting up servers, develop teams, establishing community, attracting
   new users, etc.
2. Difficult to upgrade Once Blockchain has been deployed and in
   production, it is very difficult to add/modify/delete features. Any
   of those is either soft fork or hard fork. Either fork requires
   tremendous effort and economic consequences.
3. Incompatible among chains Different chains have different schemes,
   such as consensus protocol, currency features, and adoption
   requirements. These schemes prevent the interconnection or exchange
   among multiple chains.
4. Split participant group For each Blockchain, the user base is
   different. Mining rigs and validators are dedicated for that chain
   only. No two blockchains can share any of them.
5. Performance issue Blockchain as a decentralized solution, suffers
   performance hit compared to traditional centralized solution, such as
   throughput, respond time, etc. It is very difficult to improve
   performance and still maintain distributed Byzantine Fault Tolerant.

Also, as most cryptocurrencies’ value increases dramatically in the last
year, applications based on existing blockchain platforms suffer from
higher fees and longer latencies. ### MOAC solution Over the past
several years, multiple consensus protocols have been adopted and tried
out including POW, POS, BFT, and hybrid of those. However, not a single
protocol can solve all problems. Typically, POW can be deployed in a
large scale network and scales very well. It is the most verified
consensus protocol among all. But it suffers from problems like large
power consumption, low throughput, high latency, and higher barrier to
participate. POS (DPOS) is better on power consumption and could be
configured to perform faster. However, the protocol is complex to
implement, and economical consequence has not been fully tested in large
scale. And it typically deploys in a smaller network scale. BFT family
is normally used in a much smaller scenario and can perform much better
in term of throughput and latency. So its usage is mostly focused on
private chain or enterprise applications.

To be able to deploy in a large network scale and benefit from more
participants and decentralization, while keeping the high throughput and
low latency, MOAC introduces the layered consensus stacks to make above
goals practical. It is the Blockchain for blockchains. MOAC itself will
be deployed in public network with large number of validators. It
provides following:

1. Layered configuration structure
2. Transaction, Smart Contract and Data Access support
3. Data flow, control flow and processing units, to form a distributed
   Von Neumann architecture.
4. Validators could be configured to support multiple overlapping sub
   blockchains.
5. Pluggable validation scheme to support injection of user defined
   protocols, make it easy to deploy new sub blockchains using existing
   validators.
6. Encourage user with smaller processing power to participate in the
   validation process.
7. Sharding solution to improve performance dramatically.

Consensus Protocol
'''''''''''''''''''''

We realize simply extend any current consensus protocol won’t be able to
meet all the requirements. Typical solution of combining two types of
different consensus protocols results in multiple chains or side chains.
This is the approach we want to avoid, as it introduces more problems
than solve them. Our solution to the consensus dilemma is to build a
layered consensus stack, but to keep everything synced in a single
Blockchain. For the underlying layer, we utilize POW as the main
consensus protocol, because POW is a widely tested protocol and most
robust solution to a large scale network setup. Currently MOAC uses POW
similar to Ethereum.

The drawback of POW is compensated in the top layer. Only critical
transactions and control flow transactions are processed in the POW
layer. The top layer adopts POS consensus protocol with sharding
technique to provide faster and higher throughput solution. Each POW
node has one Smart Contract Server node. The Smart Contract Server (SCS)
identity is fully verifiable by the corresponding POW node. Each SCS
node will present holding stake to be able to process the top layer user
requests.

Note that SCS processes Smart Contract calls. All transaction in the top
layer is in form of Smart Contract calls. Not all SCS will process
single transaction at the same time. Rather, part of selected SCS will
process specific transaction. The selection of SCS is through
initialization of Smart Contract call or Flush call. The init/flush call
is actually passed to the POW and achieves consensus in underlying
layer. The init/flush call will include the selection criteria including
percentage of processing nodes. Then each POW will invoke that call on
its SCS with an EHDRand algorithm. SCS will determine if itself is
selected to process this Smart Contract. Note this is a deterministic
process and SCS participation can be verified by anyone.

Once group of SCS is selected for certain Smart Contract, they will
communicate with each other to form a small consensus group. This group
will process the following Smart Contract calls on that Smart Contract.
Also, the behavior on how they reach the consensus among them could be
specified by the init/flush call. Effectively these SCS nodes form a sub
Blockchain and perform the consensus based on the predefined protocol or
user defined protocol. Please note the consensus protocol is different
from the actual Smart Contract code. Smart Contract state is saved in
each SCS. However, that is not on the actual global Blockchain. To
achieve the benefit of global Blockchain, the state needs to flush into
the underlying Blockchain periodically or on demand.

When flushing, in the consensus mode, SCS node will initiate a data
store request on the underlying POW nodes. The current state will be
written into the Blockchain and referenceable by a HASH. Note all POW
node will do the same operation. For those nodes who are not part of the
consensus group, they will not do anything. The participating SCS will
get the proposed state and verify it with its own state. If it can prove
that the proposed state is incorrect, it will initiate another data
store request with corrected state and referencing the incorrect state
hash. If no rebuttal data store request is initiated for predefined
rounds, SCS node will initiate the final flush Smart Contract call with
the correct state hash. The involved transactions in the correct state
will be processed at every POW node. The SCS node who sends out the
incorrect state will forfeit its stake.

In MOAC, most transactions will be processed in the top layer, while
only small portion of control flow transactions are processed in the POW
layer. This is feasible because top layer provides fast, flexible and
low cost service, while POW layer provides slow, reliant and expensive
service.

Layered Architecture
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

1. P2P network layer. This layer defines p2p protocol.
2. Blockchain layer. This layer handle all operation related to
   Blockchain operation, like consensus, data access, etc.
3. TX layer. This layer handles TX request and reply. It also processes
   the Control flow TX request and if necessary, invokes Smart Contract
   related operations.
4. Smart Contract layer. This layer performs smart contract execution
   inside virtual machine and also keeps a temporary contract state.
5. API handles end-user input and gets the output from lower layers.

MOAC topology
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The POW consensus node participates in a volunteer way. Each node
contributes its computing power to solve the computation-intensive
problem and verifies the validity of transactions in the agreed
transaction set. Besides the POW consensus on transaction and data store
set, each POW node is associated with one Smart Contract Server. SCS
node could be local to the POW node, or it could be a remote node. The
Smart Contract Server (SCS) identity is fully verifiable by the
corresponding POW node.

Smart contract request (create/invoke/flush) is enclosed in the Control
flow TXc and is first processed in underlying layer. Then, each POW node
sends the contract request to its SCS via an asynchronous call. SCS will
send additional Control flow TXc and Data Store TXs to underlying layer
if needed.

Execution of smart contract is in an efficient sharded way. All the SCS
can be configured at run time to process different sections of smart
contracts. The whole system throughput could be 10x-100x faster than
that of traditional way. The sharded execution group marshals the
sharding state into underlying Blockchain through Control flow TXc and
Data Store TXs.

Wallet/Address

Wallet and address are interchangeable in this document. Address holds
the balance of the digital currency. Each address has its corresponding
secret key. Secret key is used to sign the TX originated by this
address.

Smart Contract

Identification for smart contract is same as normal wallet. It has a
unique public address. One difference is that contract secret key is
discarded at creation. So no one can distribute the balance of a
contract to anyone else, other than the consensus protocol. Contract
holds four basic elements: {code, state, [call], balance}. Code is
generated by user. State holds current internal information. Balance is
the digital currency the contract has. It also stores history of
function calls on that contract.

Transaction

Transaction is the basic operation inside the system. Each address can
send/receive balance to/from other addresses. And there are also Smart
Contract based TXs. These TXs are used to trigger the work flow of Smart
Contract. Three basic transaction types in the system: Payment
Transaction TXp, Data Store TXs, Control flow TXc. They are processed in
the underlying POW consensus nodes. All nodes agree on the same world
state.

a) Payment TX: {sender->receiver:amount} Basic transaction to move fund
   from one to another. Sender will need to sign the transaction using
   secret key. The signature is verifiable by anyone.

b) Data store TX {sender->contract\_address: data to store} This
   transaction type processed in POW node will not validate any balance
   related operation.

c) Control flow TX

1. Contract init TX {code, sender, init\_amount, execution type,
   sharding config, via address}User sends the init TX to start a new
   contract. In the contract, user will need to specify the contract
   code, init fund, execution type: fast or normal, sharding config.
2. Contract Flush TX {contract\_address, flush\_target\_state,
   flush\_steps} Flush TX is to allow POW node agree on the already
   executed bulk transactions and flush them into the Blockchain.
3. Contract Payment TX {sender->contract\_address: amount} This is
   similar to normal payment TX, except that POW node will notify
   contract server about the balance update and who made the
   contribution.

Sub Blockchain

MOAC system can perform regular payment transactions, data store
transactions and Smart Contract (control flow) transactions. Moreover,
it is very convenient to utilize the provided architecture to spawn sub
blockchains. User can configure sub chain using Smart Contract to define
sub chain properties (% of participant nodes, consensus protocol,
policy, state storage, etc.). The creation of sub chain is accomplished
through Control flow TXc. Once sub chain is established, each
participant SCS will adopt the pluggable protocol in its execution. Any
following requests on the sub chain will be validated by the selected %
of SCS. The block generation of the sub chain is configured to either
on-demand or on set time schedule. The on-demand feature is preferred,
as it only generate blocks when needed, thus saving valuable resources.
The sub chain deployment can be as easy as sending couples of Smart
Contract calls. However, it inherits the secure and robust underlying
Blockchain properties. And, it can reuse the large pool of existing
validators and benefit from the decentralized setup. The sub chain could
utilize Flush contract call to randomly reselect SCS nodes, to achieve
better decentralization and security. Upgrade sub chain is also easy by
just redeploying to a new set of SCS with updated chain property.

Transaction Fee

There are two types of compensation payments that nodes can receive from
contributing their computational power. Firstly, the POW nodes will get
rewarded for each block they mine. This is similar to what currently
BITCOIN does. Secondly, the SCS server can be rewarded for their
participation of sub chains and their processing work of Smart
contracts. Note that this kind of service may not be power-intensive.
For example, if a sub chain is based on POS, the SCS can just spend very
limited resource for the validation. This is a big incentive to regular
PC users or even mobile users. For the pure POW network, there is almost
no chance for regular user to benefit from mining. However, in MOAC
setup, user can setup a light weight POW node. Although this light
weight POW node has almost no chance to win in mining contest, but,
he/she can setup an SCS associated with that POW node, and gets rewarded
for the SCS works it provides. This will encourage more users to join
the consensus system and provide more SCS processing power. On the other
hand, the Smart Contract owner or sub chain creator will need to pay the
fee for all SCS working, but is very cost-effective considering the
benefit and low startup costs. The whole process will promote a more
distributed ecosystem and benefit all parties.

Payment schedule
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Block is mined every 10s, with reward of 2 MOAC coins per block.

The reward schedule halves every 12,500,000 blocks, equivalent to
approx. four years.

After block 15,000,000, the reward will be constant of 0.1 MOAC per
block. See below.

We define 1 MOAC = 1,000,000 Sand. 1 Sand = 1,000 Xiao.

JSON-RPC support
----------------

+---------------------------+------------------------------------+
| Block#                    | Reward (1 MOAC = 1,000,000 Sand)   |
+===========================+====================================+
| 1-12,500,000              | 2 MOAC                             |
+---------------------------+------------------------------------+
| 12,500,001 - 25,000,000   | 1 MOAC                             |
+---------------------------+------------------------------------+
| 25,000,000 - 37,500,000   | 0.5 MOAC                           |
+---------------------------+------------------------------------+
| 37,500,001 - 50,00,000    | 0.25 MOAC                          |
+---------------------------+------------------------------------+
| 50,000,001 - 62,500,000   | 0.125 MOAC                         |
+---------------------------+------------------------------------+
| > 62,500,001              | 0.1 MOAC                           |
+---------------------------+------------------------------------+

Transaction fee is paid in two ways. One is through Transaction. The
other is for Smart Contract or sub chain. Smart Contract Call cost is
set lower than underlying transaction in purpose, thus encouraging the
usage of SCS. This can alleviate the pressure on the underlying layer,
and also benefit the SCS providers.

Summary
~~~~~~~

To summarize, MOAC utilizes layered architecture to combine the POW
feature of robust and scalability and the POS feature of fast
performance, quick response, without their shortcomings. The Smart
Contract layer forms a platform for complex task and various sub
blockchains. The POW nodes together with SCS nodes, construct the
flexible and scalable framework that can be reused across many
applications. MOAC Blockchain could be valuable to both light weight
participants and compute intensive participants.
